Joe O’Neill
IST 411 - Reitter
3/13/2018
Project Proposal
1. Project Description
	My idea for this project is a web application that can be used to determine the best beers to drink for a given movie. The homepage for this application will provide a search bar where users can enter the name of a movie they want to watch and click a button and then they will be given a suggested category of beer and a specific beer from that category to pair with the movie. Potentially, this search could even return both a more affordable beer option and a best overall beer option for each search instead of just returning one beer. There could also be an option to enter the kind of beer you want to drink and then the system will return an appropriate movie to watch, but this would be an additional feature if there is enough time at the end of this course for it.
	To get a system like this working properly there are a lot of other processes and pages that need to be constructed to make the program effective. First, there will need to be a way for users to create accounts. This will be fundamental to collecting personal and global data. Once that is set up, we will need to have users establish a baseline for how they rate movies. This will be similar to how Netflix initially identifies a user’s taste by having them pick movies they like from a list of movies. They will pick some movies they have seen and rate them on a scale of 1 to 10. Their ratings will then be compared to ratings from a movie reviews site to see how they rate the movies compared to others to establish a personal critiquing baseline. 
Using this baseline, the system will then need to have a way for users to enter movies they’ve watched into our database. They will enter a movie, what they drank with it and how they’d rate the movie. This will then be stored in the database and used to provide recommendations later on based on both personal and universal tastes. 
Furthermore, using the movie API and a beer-related API the system will be able to show the user some overall ratings for movies and beers either after they enter a new entry into the database, or when they look up a movie or beer to find pairings.
2. Project Design
What technologies will you use, how will they integrate?
To create this project I will need to use a handful of technologies. The overall architecture of the application will be created using Java and the Spring MVC framework. Then, I will use the APIs of Untappd and TheMovieDB to get ratings, genre/type and other information about beer and movies. These APIs use JSON, so I will need to be able to parse this using packages within Java. I will also potentially need to use a tool like Bootstrap to create attractive and easily navigable webpages. 
